Ms. Vu Thi Anh's question: I
am a lay Buddhist. I have heard
Venerable Thich Chuc Thai Minh's Dharma teachings on the
Eight Precepts. Due to distance, I cannot attend
in person, so I listen to his teachings at home
via audio and follow his
instructions, observing the eight precepts
established by Buddhists. What benefits do I receive from this? Yes, it is
very beneficial. Even
observing one precept brings
much merit, let alone
observing all eight. Therefore, observing the precepts
brings merit for each day.
In Buddhism, there is a story about
a certain deity who possessed great
power and lived a life of
divinity. The reason is that in a
previous life, this deity only followed the crowd
going to the temple, that is, followed others to the temple.
On the day of the Eight Precepts,
people bought offerings for them.
This deity
was simply carrying the offerings for them. Afterward, they
returned home,
but normally, the Eight Precepts are not eaten in the
evening.  When I got home, my wife kept insisting on eating dinner. So, I
only ate dinner because of the ritual of having my wife
eat dinner. Because of this ritual of having my wife eat dinner, my merit was reduced; otherwise, I would have been reborn in heaven. So, because of eating dinner like that, I only remain in the realm of gods, but it has a lot of power. If I hadn't eaten dinner that day and had kept the precepts, just one
day of practicing the eight precepts would have ended my life, and I would have been
reborn in heaven. So,
keeping any precept brings
the merit of that precept. On the 18th day of the
lunar month, just open the video on the
page of Venerable Thich Truc Thai Minh;
there you will find guidance on practicing for a whole
day. The more you practice, the more merit you receive.
Keeping the precepts... and
here I will explain to everyone what the precepts
of Buddhism are. Precepts are boundaries; the boundaries of Buddhist precepts are boundaries of morality. If
we keep
these boundaries of morality for a day, we receive
merit. Not killing, even small animals, is that a
boundary of morality? Not
killing is...  The scope of morality. If you
kill, then you're outside that scope,
right? A boundary is a limit, a range.
But the limit of morality is...
Not killing is the limit of
morality for a day, even if it's 30 days,
you kill for 29 days, but if you
don't kill for one day, you still get merit. That's the merit of practicing morality.
Not killing, choosing one day and one night
without killing, not stealing, choosing one
day and one night without stealing – even if a
professional thief keeps the precept for
one day, their habit of stealing is
their sin, they bear the consequences, but if they don't steal for one day, they
still get the merit.
You see? You don't see?
Not stealing for one day and one night, not killing for one day and one night, not lying, not
speaking evil words, not spreading rumors, not gossiping,
not doing that for one day and one night, just speaking the truth for one day and one night. Then not lustful for
one day and one night,
not wearing makeup. That means not wearing
flowers, earrings, not applying powder or lipstick for one
day and one night. So, not wearing
makeup... and another thing is...  Not sleeping on a high bed for
one day and one night means that on that day,
we have,
for example, a king, with a bed of gold.
But on that day, we only make
a small sacrifice, something like a gun on the ground,
we just lie down. That means we are saving
our merit for one day and one night. For four nights,
we save our merit,
we don't enjoy that merit,
we save it and take it with us. On
that day, we don't eat
dinner, only lunch. And we don't
listen to singing and dancing. That means we don't listen to songs and
music that
stir up greed and worldly desires in our minds.
But singing and
praising good deeds is fine. Singing and dancing that
stir up
unwholesome desires and pleasures in our minds is
called violating the eight precepts, the scope
of the Eight Virtues. It allows us to receive
merit and be reborn in heaven. If
we only use it for one day and one night,
we will go to heaven and enjoy all
the merit of that one day and one night.  Then
we go back down to the human world. And if
everyone practices once a month, they
will stay there longer and
enjoy lasting happiness. So, if you
practice far away and can't
go to the temple, you can practice like
that, and depending on your diligence,
you will receive more or less merit. But for
Buddhists who can go to the temple, of course,
they will receive another great blessing: the merit of monastic training.
Yes, for example, both are born into the
heavenly realm, but those who practice at home are
only subjects of heaven,
while those who practice at the temple become rulers of heaven,
like one person
becoming a king. That's the difference. So, you
should keep the precepts at
home, that's good.
[Music]
K